# Project 0: Getting Real

## Preliminaries

>Fill in your name and email address.

FirstName LastName <email@domain.example>

>If you have any preliminary comments on your submission, notes for the TAs, please give them here.



>Please cite any offline or online sources you consulted while preparing your submission, other than the Pintos documentation, course text, lecture notes, and course staff.



## Booting Pintos

>A1: Put the screenshot of Pintos running example here.



## Debugging

#### QUESTIONS: BIOS 

>B1: What is the first instruction that gets executed?

ljmp   $0x3630,$0xf000e05b

>B2: At which physical address is this instruction located?

0xffff0



#### QUESTIONS: BOOTLOADER

>B3: How does the bootloader read disk sectors? In particular, what BIOS interrupt is used?

read_sector `int $0x13`

>B4: How does the bootloader decides whether it successfully finds the Pintos kernel?

By checking MBR signature, partition type `0x20`, and bootability `0x80`.

>B5: What happens when the bootloader could not find the Pintos kernel?

It prints `"Not found"`, and indicates boot failure to the BIOS using interrupt `int $0x18`.

>B6: At what point and how exactly does the bootloader transfer control to the Pintos kernel?

The bootloader transfers control to the Pintos kernel after successfully loading the kernel into memory. It converts the 32-bit linear address of the kernel's entry point to a 16:16 segment:offset address format suitable for real mode, stores it in a temporary memory location, and then performs a long jump `ljmp *start` to the `pintos_init()` function.

#### QUESTIONS: KERNEL

>B7: At the entry of pintos_init(), what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?

0x0

>B8: When `palloc_get_page()` is called for the first time,

>> B8.1 what does the call stack look like?
>>
>> #0  palloc_get_page (flags=(PAL_ASSERT | PAL_ZERO)) at ../../threads/palloc.c:114
>>
>> #1  0xc00203aa in paging_init () at ../../threads/init.c:168
>>
>> #2  0xc002031b in pintos_init () at ../../threads/init.c:100
>>
>> #3  0xc002013d in start () at ../../threads/start.S:180
>>
>> B8.2 what is the return value in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 0xc0101000

>> B8.3 what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 0x0



>B9: When palloc_get_page() is called for the third time,

>> B9.1 what does the call stack look like?
>>

>> #0  palloc_get_page (flags=PAL_ZERO) at ../../threads/palloc.c:114
>>
>> #1  0xc0020a81 in thread_create (name=0xc002e895 "idle", priority=0, function=0xc0020eb0 <idle>, aux=0xc000efbc) at ../../threads/thread.c:178
>>
>> #2  0xc0020976 in thread_start () at ../../threads/thread.c:111
>>
>> #3  0xc0020334 in pintos_init () at ../../threads/init.c:119
>>
>> #4  0xc002013d in start () at ../../threads/start.S:180

>> B9.2 what is the return value in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 0xc0103000

>> B9.3 what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 0x102027



## Kernel Monitor

>C1: Put the screenshot of your kernel monitor running example here. (It should show how your kernel shell respond to `whoami`, `exit`, and `other input`.)

#### 

>C2: Explain how you read and write to the console for the kernel monitor.

Read to `command[100]` using `input_getc` in `device/inpuc.c`, see details in `read_line`. Use `printf` in `lib/stdio.c` and `putchar` in `lib/kernel/console.c` for output.

When it reads `DEL` (`ASCII 127`) or `'\b'` (`ASCII 8`), it outputs `'\b'`, `' '`, `'\b'` sequentially to simulate the visual effect of backspace.